---
layout: post
title: "Lentidão da Justiça Portuguesa"
published: true
categories:
  - Current Affairs
  - Portugal
---
<p>O Diário de Notícias <a href="http://dn.sapo.pt/noticia/noticia.asp?CodNoticia=139584&codEdicao=974&CodAreaNoticia=2">relata hoje</a> que o <a href="http://www.coe.int/T/E/Commissioner_H.R/Communication_Unit/">Comissário Europeu para os Direitos Humanos</a> Alvaro Gil-Robles (<a href="http://assembly.coe.int/Magazines/Europeans/1999/te0999/Robles_CV_E.htm">nascido em Portugal</a>) publicou no dia 19 Dezembro de <a href="http://www.coe.int/T/E/Commissioner%5FH.R/Communication%5FUnit/Documents/By_year/2003/index.asp#TopOfPage">2003</a> um <a href="http://www.coe.int/T/E/Commissioner_H.R/Communication_Unit/Documents/pdf.CommDH(2003)14_E.pdf">Relatório sobre uma visita a Portugal</a> no qual denuncia o mau funcionamento da justiça portuguesa (ver também   <a href="http://ultimahora.publico.pt/shownews.asp?id=1184056&idCanal=90">artigo do Público</a>). Alguns excertos do relatório:<blockquote><cite>(...) the number of cases pending has doubled since 1992 despite a reduction in the number of new cases entered each year.</cite></blockquote><blockquote><cite>This (...) is largely the result of increasing delays in civil proceedings, which accounted for 72.3% of all cases heard in 2001.</cite></blockquote><blockquote><cite>The average length of civil proceedings increased from 13 to 20 months between 1995 and 2001</cite></blockquote><blockquote><cite>It is particularly worrying that the increase in the average length of civil proceedings cannot entirely be attributed to the explosion of small claims litigation between 1991 and 1997 and an incommensurate increase in judicial resources. The number of new civil cases entered each year has, rather, levelled out over the past 6 years. At the same time, the number of judges has increased from 10 to 14 per 100,00 inhabitants, and the number of support staff from 62 to 91, since 1992, which represents an increase of over 30%.</cite></blockquote><blockquote><cite>The access to a fair and public hearing in a reasonable time is by no means a right of a secondary importance</cite></blockquote><blockquote><cite>Lengthy detention on remand (prisão preventiva) gravely prejudices the resumption of the ordinary lives of those acquitted</cite></blockquote><blockquote><cite>On 1st September 2003, 4100 persons were being held on remand in Portugal. At 29% of the total prison population, this proportion well exceeds the European average. Whilst the number of persons held on remand at any given moment has, at around 4000, remained more or less constant over the last decade, the average length of  remand custody has increased over this period.</cite></blockquote><blockquote><cite>In 1992, 54.2% of those detained on remand were held for less than  6 months and only 2.7% were held for more than 18. By 2001 the figures were respectively 31.4 and 5.8%. (...) an average of 150 innocent persons a year are faced with the real prospect of spending in excess of 12 months in custody (...).</cite></blockquote><blockquote><cite>(...) it ought, however, to be borne in mind that in Portugal, detention on remand continues until all possible appeals have been exhausted. This is unlike the majority of European states, where the sentence proper begins immediately upon conviction at first instance. (...) It is debatable, however, whether this theoretical entitlement is, in all cases, preferable to the custodial regimes enjoyed by sentenced prisoners.</cite></blockquote>Este relatório contém informação tão chocante que não percebo como é que não é manchete de jornal diariamente desde que foi publicado, já em Dezembro do ano passado.</p>

<p>A prisão preventiva deve ser um último recurso, utilizado apenas para a criminalidade organizada ou quando há risco iminente e bem documentado de ser cometido um crime grave. Como alguém disse, em Portugal prende-se para investigar, em lugar de se investigar para prender.</p>

