---
layout: post
title: "Al Gore"
published: true
category:
  - Current Affairs
---
<p>O Al Gore fez ante-ontem um <a href="http://www.moveonpac.org/goreremarks052604.html">discurso arrasador</a> sobre a política externa da Administração Bush. O discurso está alojado numa página da <a href="http://www.moveonpac.org/">MoveOn PAC</a>, que o descreve da seguinte forma:</p>
<blockquote><cite>Former Vice President Al Gore delivered a major foreign policy address in New York City May 26, sponsored by MoveOn PAC, linking the Abu Ghraib prison abuses to deep flaws in President Bush’s Iraq policy and calling for the resignation of 6 members of the Bush Administration team responsible for the failed policy and abuse of prisoners in Iraq. Gore identified the various ways in which all Americans—soldiers in Iraq, residents and travelers abroad, and citizens at home—are endangered by the bitterness created throughout the Islamic world—and beyond—by US policy.</cite></blockquote>
<p>O discurso é sóbrio, lúcido e detalhado nas acusações que faz e nas conclusões que tira. Alguns excertos:</p>
<blockquote><cite>
<p>
Private Lynndie England did not make the decision that the United States would not observe the Geneva Convention. Specialist Charles Graner was not the one who approved a policy of establishing an American Gulag of dark rooms with naked prisoners to be "stressed" and even - we must use the word - tortured - to force them to say things that legal procedures might not induce them to say.
</p>
[...]
<p>
Donald Rumsfeld, as the chief architect of the war plan, should resign today. His deputies Paul Wolfowitz, Douglas Feith and his intelligence chief Stephen Cambone should also resign. The nation is especially at risk every single day that Rumsfeld remains as Secretary of Defense.
</p><p>
Condoleeza Rice, who has badly mishandled the coordination of national security policy, should also resign immediately.
</p><p>
George Tenet should also resign. I want to offer a special word about George Tenet, because he is a personal friend and I know him to be a good and decent man. It is especially painful to call for his resignation, but I have regretfully concluded that it is extremely important that our country have new leadership at the CIA immediately.</p>
[...]
<p>
These horrors were the predictable consequence of policy choices that flowed directly from this administration's contempt for the rule of law. And the dominance they have been seeking is truly not simply unworthy of America - it is also an illusory goal in its own right.</p><p>

Our world is unconquerable because the human spirit is unconquerable, and any national strategy based on pursuing the goal of domination is doomed to fail because it generates its own opposition, and in the process, creates enemies for the would-be dominator.</p><p>

A policy based on domination of the rest of the world not only creates enemies for the United States and creates recruits for Al Qaeda, it also undermines the international cooperation that is essential to defeating the efforts of terrorists who wish harm and intimidate Americans.</p><p>
[...]
</p><p>
Our future is dependent upon increasing cooperation and interdependence in a world tied ever more closely together by technologies of communications and travel. The emergence of a truly global civilization has been accompanied by the recognition of truly global challenges that require global responses that, as often as not, can only be led by the United States - and only if the United States restores and maintains its moral authority to lead.
</p>
</cite></blockquote>
<p>Vale a pena gastar uns instantes para ler o artigo na íntegra.</p>

