---
layout: post
title: "Pattern links"
published: true
category:
  - Web/Tech
---

Last week I taugh a 4-day Sun training course: [Architecting and
Designing J2EE Applications]. This course introduces a development
methodology called SunTone, which is basically a variation of the
Rational Unified Process centered around J2EE and with a higher emphasis
on pattern use. At the end of the course, I gave my students a list of
hopefully useful links:

The two founding tomes of pattern literature are:

-   [Design Patterns], aka the GoF or Gang-or-four book, published in
    1995 and centered on design patterns. The style is terse, and the
    examples are given in Smalltalk and C++. Not the most accessible of
    books;
-   [Pattern-Oriented Software Architecture, Volume 1: A System of
    Patterns], aka the PoSA book, published in 1996. This book offers a
    classification of patterns into architecture patterns, design
    patterns and implementation patterns.

Vico.org has a page called [Padrones de Diseño] (title in Spanish, URL
in Catalan, content in English) that presents detailed explanations for
several patterns from both books, including simple UML diagrams of the
patterns and some sample code. They also have a list of [useful pattern
links].\

[Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture], published in 2002, is
another accessible Martin Fowler book and a good introduction to several
architecture patterns and concepts that can now be considered
mainstream. As he says in the intro, this is not a book of new ideas.
However, those new to system architecture will find this a pleasant and
digestible read. Check out [Catalog of Patterns of Enterprise
Application Architecture] for a list of the patterns discussed in this
book, and be sure to check his [Articles] if you haven't yet.

The book [Design Patterns Explained: A New Perspective on
Object-Oriented Design] introduces a few select patterns. I've lent this
one to several CompSci people who all enjoyed it, and it was the first
book that made me feel comfortable with the fundamental design
patterns.\

Another introductory book that's been topping the charts of Amazon.com's
Java category is [Head First Design Patterns]. Unorthodox, irreverent,
funny and effective.

Even more unorthodox is [A Little Java, A Few Patterns]. Written by
Matthias Felleisen (co-author of [How to Design Programs]) and Daniel P.
Friedman (co-author of [Essentials of Programming Languages]), this
highly unusual book uses a socratic style of question-answer pairs to
really engage the reader and make him understand how some patterns
emerge as natural solutions for some problems. No prior knowledge is
needed apart from basic Java and Object-Orientation. The book uses a
style  of OO Java that borrows heavily from functional programming
ideas. Funny yet sophisticated, accessible yet surprisingly deep. Expect
to reread this book several times.

[Patterns and Software: Essential Concepts and Terminology] also has a
nice self-contained online introduction to pattern concepts. One of the
GoF authors, John Vlissides, has an interesting article called
[Patterns: The Top Ten Misconceptions], where he addresses some common
criticisms of patterns.

[![Corej2eepatterns]]\
<span style="font-size: 0.9em; margin-top: 0px;">[Core J2EE
Patterns]</span>

The standard reference for J2EE-specific patterns is [Core J2EE
Patterns: Best Practices and Design Strategies], a Sun Microsystems book
published by Prentice Hall. The text for the second part of the book,
the pattern catalog itself, is available from sun.com at the [Core J2EE
Patterns: Patterns][Core J2EE Patterns] index page. Just click on each
pattern to access its detailed description, complete with UML diagrams
and sample code. [J2EE Patterns Catalog], another Sun page, has links to
some alternative descriptions. [Designing Enterprise Applications with
the J2EE Platform, Second Edition], another Sun book, also has some J2EE
pattern information and is now available for free both in [HTML] and
[PDF] formats.

TheServerSide.com has an [Enterprise Java Patterns] page listing several
patterns, and their EJB Design Patterns book is freely available in
[PDF][1] format. Be sure to check their useful [J2EE Application Server
Matrix] on the way out.

The original c2.com Wiki by OO veteran Ward Cunningham has a concise
[History of Patterns], a classification of [Pattern Categories] and a
[Pattern Related Book List].

The Hillside Group was created by several pattern pioneers and has a
[Pattern Catalog] with links to several other pattern pages.

  [Architecting and Designing J2EE Applications]: http://www.sun.com/training/catalog/courses/SL-425.xml
  [Design Patterns]: http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0201633612/102-4255609-9112933?v=glance
  [Pattern-Oriented Software Architecture, Volume 1: A System of
  Patterns]: http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0471958697/102-4255609-9112933?v=glance
  [Padrones de Diseño]: http://www.vico.org/pages/PatronsDisseny.html
  [useful pattern links]: http://www.vico.org/pages/Sitios_www/vico_sitios_Patterns.html
  [Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture]: http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0321127420/104-4049655-7455156
  [Catalog of Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture]: http://www.martinfowler.com/eaaCatalog/
  [Articles]: http://martinfowler.com/articles.html
  [Design Patterns Explained: A New Perspective on Object-Oriented
  Design]: http://www.netobjectives.com/dpexplained/
  [Head First Design Patterns]: http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0596007124/104-4049655-7455156?v=glance
  [A Little Java, A Few Patterns]: http://mitpress.mit.edu/catalog/item/default.asp?tid=3609&ttype=2
  [How to Design Programs]: http://mitpress.mit.edu/catalog/author/default.asp?aid=553
  [Essentials of Programming Languages]: http://mitpress.mit.edu/catalog/item/default.asp?ttype=2&tid=3620
  [Patterns and Software: Essential Concepts and Terminology]: http://www.cmcrossroads.com/bradapp/docs/patterns-intro.html
  [Patterns: The Top Ten Misconceptions]: http://www.research.ibm.com/designpatterns/pubs/top10misc.html
  [Corej2eepatterns]: http://olifante.blogs.com/covil/images/corej2eepatterns.gif
    "Corej2eepatterns"{width="290" height="384"}
  [![Corej2eepatterns]]: http://java.sun.com/blueprints/corej2eepatterns/Patterns/index.html
    "Core J2EE Patterns"
  [Core J2EE Patterns]: http://java.sun.com/blueprints/corej2eepatterns/Patterns/index.html
  [Core J2EE Patterns: Best Practices and Design Strategies]: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0131422464/102-4255609-9112933?v=glance&n=283155
  [J2EE Patterns Catalog]: http://java.sun.com/blueprints/patterns/catalog.html
  [Designing Enterprise Applications with the J2EE Platform, Second
  Edition]: http://java.sun.com/blueprints/guidelines/designing_enterprise_applications_2e/
  [HTML]: http://java.sun.com/blueprints/guidelines/designing_enterprise_applications_2e/DEA2eTOC.html
  [PDF]: http://javashoplm.sun.com/ECom/docs/Welcome.jsp?StoreId=22&PartDetailId=7036-design_ent_app-2.0-oth-JPR&SiteId=JSC&TransactionId=noreg
  [Enterprise Java Patterns]: http://www.theserverside.com/patterns/index.tss
  [1]: http://www.theserverside.com/books/wiley/EJBDesignPatterns/downloads/ejbdesignpatterns.pdf
  [J2EE Application Server Matrix]: http://www.theserverside.com/reviews/matrix.tss
  [History of Patterns]: http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?HistoryOfPatterns
  [Pattern Categories]: http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?CategoryPattern
  [Pattern Related Book List]: http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?PatternRelatedBookList
  [Pattern Catalog]: http://hillside.net/patterns/onlinepatterncatalog.htm
