---
layout: post
title: "Bloglines"
published: true
category:
  - Weblogs
---

Betterdays has a nice illustrated guide to Bloglines called [Using
Bloglines (or How to keep up with dozens of blogs everyday)].

Reading more than a dozen blogs on a periodical basis by manually
visiting their sites with a browser is a great way to lose your mental
sanity. That's what [News Aggregators] are for. Enter [Bloglines], the
king of news aggregators. When I discovered it, I immediately abandoned
[NetNewsWire], which was and remains one of the best news aggregators
for MacOSX. Why did I do it? Because Bloglines is a web application,
meaning I can access it from any machine. I regularly move between Macs,
PCs and Solaris machines, and Bloglines allows me to keep track of all
the stuff I've already read, showing me only the new and unread items. I
also use Bloglines for managing my blogroll, i.e. the list of blogs
shown on the right-hand side of this blog. Bloglines also lets me
publish my blogroll on their site: here's [olifante's feeds].

Bloglines actually isn't the first web-based news aggregator: the first
one I used was Geekboys, a Swedish site that didn't last long. I later
moved to Fyuze, then to NewsIsFree, then back to Fyuze, and later to
locally installed news aggregators. What sets Bloglines apart from those
is its ease of use and good graphical design. I can manage my
subscriptions in an explorer-like tree panel, allowing me to keep track
of many more blogs than before (over a hundred now). Bloglines gives a
much more efficient way of wasting even more time. Procrastinators of
world, you know you want it!

  [Using Bloglines (or How to keep up with dozens of blogs everyday)]: http://preetamrai.com/weblog/archives/2005/04/25/bloglines-how-to-keep-track-of-hundreds-of-blogs-and-some-news-and-some-podcasts-and-some-flickrs-photos-etc-etc/
    "betterdays | Blog Archive | Using Bloglines (or How to keep up with dozens of blogs everyday)"
  [News Aggregators]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/News_aggregator
  [Bloglines]: http://www.bloglines.com
  [NetNewsWire]: http://ranchero.com/netnewswire
  [olifante's feeds]: bloglines.com/public/olifante
