---
layout: post
title: "Rude Ruby!"
published: true
category:
  - Web/Tech
---
<p>Rude Ruby, you scoundrel, you unspeakable you! You burst into my life and left me all alone, harboring new and unwholesome desires in my delicate bosom. Listen, oh gentle folks, to the sad, sad tale that ended my love affair with Python...</p>

<p>The buzz around the Ruby Programming Language has been steadily growing during the last couple of years. I learned just enough to decide it was too similar to Python to justify getting out of my comfort zone just to be able to do the same things in a different way. However, lately I noticed that several tech-celebrities like Martin Fowler, the Pragmatic Programmer guys and a few XP veterans and Smalltalk exiles had chosen Ruby as their language of election. I finally ordered the &quot;pickaxe&quot; book just before last Christmas after having read the previous version online. I read through the theory in one sitting, and found it to be one of the best programming language books I've read: very readable, compelling and clear. It left me with a very good impression of Ruby.</p>

<p>Compared to Python, my favorite programming language and the one I'm most proficient with, Ruby is certainly a larger and more complex language. However, the complexity mostly seems to be there for a reason: Power. Ruby really *seems* to be even more expressive than Python, and has a consistent philosophy and behaviour that I've some times found lacking in Python. Python on the other hand is more readable and is close to becoming a mainstream programming language, enjoying growing industry awareness, tool support, an extensive and freely available library of pre-existing code and a large following in the blogosphere.</p>

<p>In spite of this, I find myself wanting to use Ruby for my next programming project... I always felt that lambdas were horribly crippled in Python, and find my self harboring unspeakable desires for Ruby Closures. Rude Ruby, come here!<br /> </p>

