---
layout: post
title: "Which language is home?"
published: true
category:
  - Weblogs
---

In [That's why I blog in English too], Andr√© talks about the reasons he
blogs in English: **International Recognition, Networking and
Conversation**. I would put my reasons in a single expression:
**Community of Interest**.

When I started a blog, nearly two years ago, I thought long and hard
about the language I was going to use. Logic told me I probably should
be blogging in English, but I felt that would be a betrayal, a desertion
from my language and my local community. So I followed my heart and
wrote almost exclusively in Portuguese, hoping to discover fellow
Portuguese bloggers with a shared interest.

Unfortunately, I eventually came to the conclusion that most people in
the Portuguese blogosphere were not interested in what I had to say.
That could very well be entirely my fault, of course, and possibly that
won't change by moving to English. What's more difficult to ignore is
that most of the blogs I read and would like to correspond with are
written in English, and most of the stuff I quote is in English. It's
not much use writing in Portuguese if you limit your potential audience
to people who are at ease in both English and Portuguese.

I slowly came to the conclusion that virtual communities on the web are
often more defined by common intellectual interest than by shared
cultural background or language. Most blogs gravitate around a few
chosen topics. Globally, these topics may be of potential interest to
tens or hundreds of thousands of passionate people. When you confine
yourself to the boundaries of a small or medium-size language, however,
your potential community shrinks dramatically, possibly to a few
hundreds who most likely are not even aware your blog exists, and likely
never will be.

Of course [Portuguese] isn't such a small language, but if you restrict
yourself to European Portuguese (pt-PT) it shrinks from 200 million to
10 million speakers. Usually Portuguese people don't enjoy reading
Brazillian Portuguese (pt-BR). It's actually a bit weird, since written
pt-BR is actually closer to written pt-PT than spoken pt-BR to spoken
pt-PT, but most people in Portugal are at ease with spoken pt-BR due to
frequent exposure to Brazillian television programs. Written pt-BR is
close enough to written pt-PT to be emminently understandable, but
different enough to jam the mental parser and seem like slightly
incorrect pt-PT. When we move to technical matters, the communication
barrier is worsened by the fact that a lot of English loan words are
used, and Portuguese-speaking communities on both sides on the Atlantic
often settle on a different set of words that are retained in the
original English and another set of words that are translated, often in
different ways. Thus "delete" becomes "deletar" in pt-BR and "apagar" in
pt-PT, "file" translates to "arquivo" in pt-BR and "ficheiro" in pt-PT,
etc...

Furthermore, it seems like the best and brightest tech bloggers
naturally gravitate towards the English-speaking blogosphere, and for
good reason too: it's very difficult to replicate the critical mass of
the anglo-saxon blogosphere. The network effect means that the more
people blog in English, the more attractive it becomes to blog in
English.

Although I haven't written about it before, I decided a few months ago I
would use the language that is most adequate for each topic. When I
write about local politics and events in my geographical community, I
use Portuguese. When I write about specialized or arcane stuff, I use
the language with the widest reach, the language of my intellectual
community. Right now that means English, but who knows, in a few decades
maybe it'll be Mandarin (which I started learning around 6 months ago,
but that's a subject for another post).

  [That's why I blog in English too]: http://blog.delaranja.com/?p=298
    "That's why I blog in English too"
  [Portuguese]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portuguese_language
