---
layout: post
title: "X11.app woes"
published: true
category:
  - Web/Tech
---

I finally managed to get Apple's [X11] to work, after several X11-less
weeks.

It's a long story: After installing the last Safari update using Apple's
Software Update, I was no longer able to login with any of my
Powerbook's accounts. The only way I found to solve the login problem
without wasting a lot of time was to do an Archive & Install, keeping my
user's folders and applications. This was a first for me - I usually
prefer to do clean installs, but happily it worked like a cinch. In next
to no time I had a fresh install of MacOS X Tiger up and running, and
all I had to do was patch the base install. Fortunately I usually choose
Software Update's "Keep and Install" option, so I didn't even have to
download the updates. All my docs and apps were preserved, apart from
the Developer Tools (with X11), which I had to re-install from DVD.

Unfortunately, whenever I tried to run X11 it crashed immediately. The
crash.log in /Users/username/Library/Logs/CrashReporter/X11.crash.log
mentioned the following error:

> Library not loaded: /usr/X11R6/lib/libX11.6.dylib\
> Referenced from: /Applications/Utilities/X11.app/Contents/MacOS/X11\
> Reason: image not found

I was able to live without X11 for a while, but yesterday I needed an
image editor to do a simple screen-capture touch-up, and after some
research I knew I had to get X11 working in order to use the Gimp. I
googled around, and eventually found that I just had to install X11User
from /Volumes/Mac OS X
Install/DVD/System/Installation/Packages/X11User.pkg (Tiger installation
DVD). As a former Sun colleague used to say, "Problem solve, case close"
(sic).

  [X11]: http://fink.sourceforge.net/doc/x11/x11.en.html#intro.def-x11
