---
layout: post
title: "IT Bookstores Are Doomed"
published: true
category:
  - Web/Tech
---

I went to [FNAC] Colombo today to return an article, and profited from
the occasion to stroll through the store to see if anything caught my
fancy. I mostly followed my usual pattern: first the [Bande Dessinée]
section, then the SF&F section, and finally the IT section (no classical
music today). As usual, the BD section didn't have my kind of stuff,
while the pitiful SF&F section made me once more question why I ever
bother going there. In the IT section, however, I found three new (to
me) O'Reilly books, which is a bit surprising since FNAC usually carries
a very fragmented selection of O'Reilly's huge catalogue. The following
is emphatically NOT a review of those books, just a barely coherent rant
on IT book prices in bricks-and-mortar bookstores in Portugal:

[  ![]  ]

Mapping Hacks looks good: It's printed on high-quality paper, presumably
in order to let the ubiquous colour images shine, and shine they do.
Geo-location is all the rage now, as can be inferred from the huge
ammount of Google Maps [mashups] that keep on appearing, and I've often
wished I knew more about [GIS], [Geolocation] and associated tools.

The book seems to have a lot of interesting recipes, but unfortunately
it violates my religious principles: most code snippets are written in
Perl, a language I deliberately avoid. I will be the first to admit that
Perl is a powerful language, and I won't try to argue a position that is
basically unarguable. Perl simply violates my aesthetic standards by
being irredeemably ugly.

The book also cost, if I recall correctly, €39 (as of today, [47\$]),
while the official price (hidden in the back-cover by the FNAC price
tag) is \$30. Oh, and it costs \$20 on Amazon, where it also manages to
score 4.5 stars. Not surprisingly, I chose not to buy it at FNAC.

[  ![][1]  ]

Before I saw the light and became a very annoying Ruby and [RoR]
evangelizer, I used to be a very annoying Python evangelizer. Although I
now see that Python is imperfect and strays from the One True Path, I
have to admit that I still hold a place for the darned thing deep down
in my heart. Hate the sin, love the sinner, etc.

Naturally, ever since back the day I heard [Nokia was making Python run
on all Series 60] phones, I've been longing to get a Series 60 phone and
start tinkering with it, which I would have done if Nokia made phones
with better user interfaces. (As it is, all my mobiles since 2003 have
been Sony-Ericssons, from the T68i to the T630 to my current K750i.) The
[recent release of version 1.2] has made the craving even more acute.

I thus picked up the book with some interest, maybe hoping to finally
find a reason to shell out some serious money for a recent Series 60
Nokia phone. One glance, however, at the back-cover of what might have
been a happy on-the-spot purchase was enough to identify a €10 markup
that made it impossible to justify buying the book, which is recommended
by O'Reilly for \$25 but sells for \$16.47 on Amazon, where it gets an
average of five stars from the reviewers. That makes it two possible
lost sales for FNAC. I guess I'll have to make do with the
[PythonForSeries60] wiki for the time being.

[  ![][2]  ]

This was the book that most caught my interest. I've just finished
teaching a Sun JES Access Manager class, and Digital Identity looks like
the ideal complement to spice up my next class. Authored by [Phil
Windley] of [Technometria] and [IT Conversations], Digital Identity
presents an overview of common Identity Management concepts and issues,
and the rationale for the current best-practices, which include the
Identity Management Architecture, an architecture for identity
federation, which is also the approach taken by Access Manager for
cross-company SSO. If I had found this book two weeks ago, I would have
bought it without blinking. Post-factum, however, the €45 price [(\$54])
compares unfavourably to the recommended price of \$35, and seems
downright unbearable when the same book can be had for \$23 on Amazon
(where it gets 4.5 stars). This particular sale was lost on price alone
-- I'm ordering the book from Amazon now.

In my wildest, drug-induced dreams, I envision myself launching what I
sometimes imagine every IT professional in Portugal must want: a
bookstore dedicated to IT books, with shelves filled with the complete
catalogue of important IT publishers such as O'Reilly, Addison-Wesley,
Wiley, etc., or at the very least a good selection from their catalogues
that leaves out obsolete books and technologies and concentrates on what
currently matters. I've been forced to conclude that the reason this
bookstore does not exist and most likely will not exist in the near
future is that it is not economically viable.

I have to suppose that FNAC knows its business. Urgent purchases,
impulse purchases, lazy buyers and e-commerce avoiders must occur in
numbers large enough to justify having an IT section with a haphazard
selection of English language titles, while probably not large enough to
justify having a well stocked and organized section. Amazon and other
e-booksellers have probably made it unprofitable for big chains such as
FNAC to have good IT sections, so it's unlikely that a good, specialized
IT store can survive in Portugal.

  [FNAC]: http://www.fnac.pt/
  [Bande Dessinée]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bande_Dessin%C3%A9e
  []: http://images.amazon.com/images/P/0596007035.01._AA240_SCLZZZZZZZ_.jpg{width="240"
  height="240"}
  [  ![]  ]: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0596007035/104-4049655-7455156?v=glance&n=283155
  [mashups]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mashup_(web_application_hybrid)
  [GIS]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gis
  [Geolocation]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geolocation
  [47\$]: http://www.google.com/search?q=39+eur+in+usd&start=0&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8&client=firefox-a&rls=org.mozilla:en-US:official
  [1]: http://images.amazon.com/images/P/0596009615.01._AA240_SCLZZZZZZZ_.jpg{width="240"
  height="240"}
  [  ![][1]  ]: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0596009615
  [RoR]: http://www.rubyonrails.org
  [Nokia was making Python run on all Series 60]: http://press.nokia.com/PR/200501/978226_5.html
  [recent release of version 1.2]: http://opensource.nokia.com/projects/pythonforseries60/
  [PythonForSeries60]: http://www.postneo.com/postwiki/moin.cgi/PythonForSeries60
  [2]: http://ec1.images-amazon.com/images/P/0596008783.01._AA240_SCLZZZZZZZ_.jpg{width="240"
  height="240"}
  [  ![][2]  ]: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0596008783
  [Phil Windley]: http://phil.windley.org/
  [Technometria]: http://www.windley.com/
  [IT Conversations]: http://www.itconversations.com/shows/detail788.html
  [(\$54]: http://www.google.com/search?q=45+eur+in+usd&start=0&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8&client=firefox-a&rls=org.mozilla:en-US:official
