---
layout: post
title: "Last.fm and iScrobbler"
published: true
category:
  - Music
---

Music recommendation engines are all the rage now: newcomer [Pandora]
has made a splash with its music classification algorithms, which uses
your favorite tunes to recommend other songs. I tried Pandora a few
months ago, and while I found it interesting, I was disappointed by the
recommendations limit applied to non-paying customers.

I find the service provided by veteran [Last.fm] much more interesting:
it's a social music recommendation service that lets users share their
listening habits. Last.fm uses the data to rank music and make
suggestions based on your listening habits. My profile is available at
[olifante User's Page - Last.fm] and you can also subscribe to an RSS
feed to find out what I'm currently listening to -- not that anyone
would care ;-). Be sure to check the album cover collage shown by the
[Top Albums chart:]

[![Top\_albums]][Top Albums chart:]

In order to collect data, Last.fm provides [iScrobbler], an Mac OS X
iTunes plug-in that can automatically submit info about the songs you
listen to on your Mac or even iPod. After my harddisk broke down last
August. I forgot to re-install it, but yesterday I finally got around to
re-enabling it. Here's a dynamically generated chart of my last ten
songs:

[![]]

**Disclaimer:** Ever since I bought an Airport Express, I all but
stopped listening to CDs. iTunes with Airtunes has long since become my
"AirFi", mightier than any stone-age HiFi can be. iTunes' smokin' Smart
Playlists combined with Party Shuffle make it a mighty music explorer
that I constantly use to investigate unknown artists, so the fact that I
listen to something a few times doesn't necessarily mean I like it.
Don't be surprised to find some weird music mixed in with some very
corny stuff.

**Listening Suggestion:** If you fancy [Cockney] rap seasoned with
occasional [Sinhalan] vocals, check out [M.I.A.]'s amazing debut album
[Arular].

  [Pandora]: http://www.pandora.com/
  [Last.fm]: http://www.last.fm/
  [olifante User's Page - Last.fm]: http://www.last.fm/user/olifante
  [Top Albums chart:]: http://www.last.fm/user/olifante/charts/&charttype=overall&subtype=album
  [Top\_albums]: http://olifante.blogs.com/photos/uncategorized/top_albums.png
    "Top_albums"{.image-full}
  [iScrobbler]: http://iscrobbler.sourceforge.net/
  []: http://imagegen.last.fm/sideRed/recenttracks/olifante.gif
  [![]]: http://www.last.fm/user/olifante/?chartstyle=sideRed
  [Cockney]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cockney
  [Sinhalan]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sinhala
  [M.I.A.]: http://www.xlrecordings.com/mia/
  [Arular]: http://www.metroactive.com/papers/metro/11.17.04/mia-0447.html
