---
layout: post
title: "Olifante has finally landed..."
published: true
category:
  - Web/Tech
---

...on the surface of [Planet Tao of Mac], a site run by [Rui Carmo] that
aggregates content from more than a dozen tech-centric bloggers.
Greetings, fellow Planet-Tao-of-Mac'ers! It's an honour to be in such
great company.

Rui is also the man behind [Tao of Mac], for my money the best
tech-oriented blog/wiki in Portugal and probably the most
internationalized Portuguese blog. I discovered only recently that the
Planet is open for immigration, as long as applicants fulfil the
[stringent admission criteria], namely being Mac users who grok Unix.

Seeing as I've been a Mac user ever since 2001, when my iBook became for
a short time a head-turning sensation at Sun Microsystems Portugal, I
decided on a whim to ask Rui to join in, to which he quickly and
courteously said something like "Sure. Send me a mugshot and you're in
in 5 minutes." There was much joy and merriment in no place in
particular, but unfortunately my current blogging hibernation period
continued even after entering the Planet's orbit.

For several reasons I haven't been adding much lately to my own blog,
the venerable [Olifante's Lair] (open for business since 2003), but I
now intend to turn up the heat once more and try to keep up with the
quality and frequency of updates I see on the Planet.

By the way, I'm writing this post from a brand new iMac G5 17". My wife
and I were fed up with all the junk and idiotic behaviour accumulated by
her parents' Windows PCs in between our visits from Lisbon to Viana do
Castelo, and decided to move them to something sane: a Mac.

Since we weren't able to spend Christmas together, it was only this
weekend that we managed to visit and present them with their shiny new
toy. They were suitably awed -- I know I would be: it's gorgeous and I
want one!

The new iMac features are quite handy. Photo Booth was great for some
quick family fun with the integrated iSight, and the remote command
turned out to be pretty handy when we did a photo slideshow of their
recent vacations in Brazil.

I feel like a boy scout who has just turned the world into a happier,
safer place.

  [Planet Tao of Mac]: http://planet.taoofmac.com/
  [Rui Carmo]: http://the.taoofmac.com/space/RuiCarmo
  [Tao of Mac]: http://the.taoofmac.com/space
  [stringent admission criteria]: http://planet.taoofmac.com/about.php
  [Olifante's Lair]: http://olifante.blogs.com/
