---
layout: post
title: "Thai Food in Lisbon"
published: true
category:
  - Food and Drink
---

Sukhothai is a cozy Thai restaurant that opened just 5 months ago in the
Bairro Alto. Located in Rua da Atalaia, no. 77, it offers tasty Thai
food at affordable prices in a compact but pleasant space.

Along with my family, in the last 7 years I've become a great fan of
Southeast Asia food in general, and Thai cuisine in particular. In spite
of Portugal's early commercial presence in Asia, until recently Lisbon
didn't have much to offer in terms of oriental cuisine, apart from the
mandatory hordes of Chinese restaurants, complimented by a large number
of Indian restaurants (thanks to our Goa connection) and a few Japanese
restaurants. Fortunately things seem to be slowly improving. A few years
ago, a Thai restaurant called [Bangkok] opened in nearby Cascais, with
steep prices but good décor and food (although it now has reportedly
closed), and was recently joined by [BanThai], another pricey but tasty
Thai restaurant down in Lisbon's Alcântara quarter.

Sukhothai - Siamese Flavours - is the new Thai contender. The restaurant
is quite small, so be sure to reserve (+351 213 432 159). Even though
the restaurant was far from crowded, two of the three 4-person tables
were already taken when we got there, and all that was left was half a
dozen 2-person tables, so I was glad we did call and reserve.

The menu is pleasingly compact: 14 main dishes, with prices starting at
€10.55. Our party of three ordered three starters: a portion of the
mandatory Satay grilled chicken skewers, a Tom-Ka-Kai soup (chicken in
coconut milk) and for me a delicious Tom-Yam-Kung spicy soup, truly very
spicy, the way God meant soups to be. Thanks to the starters, we decided
to order just two main dishes along with two portions of rice. We went
for a portion of Gang-Keaw-Wan (chicken green curry) and a portion of
Kai-Kra-Team-Pik-Thai (chicken stir-fried with garlic), watered down
with Portuguese bottled beer (no tap beer available).

We topped the evening off with a single portion of Kao-Neaw-Ma-Mung
(Thai sweet sticky rice with mango). Thai desserts had so far been a bit
of a letdown for me, but this one more than made up for previous
experiences. The warm sweet rice is sprinkled with a tasty but
unidentified seed, and the mango combination made it a definite winner.
The three supplied dessert spoons worked furiously until the dessert was
no more than a happy memory.

I'm partial to Bourbon, so I had a Jack Daniels before we asked for the
bill, which ammounted to €57 for three people, including starters,
drinks, dessert and bourbon. Not too bad for such a savoury, varied and
filling meal. An experience to be repeated, that's for sure.

We had a nice chat at the end with Sukhothai's owner, Mr. Noppadol. I
was surprised by the fact that he could speak fluent Portuguese in
addition to English and of course Thai, and discovered that he studied
in Portugal around 10 years ago. When he told me he was one of the many
Thai of chinese descent, it was my turn to surprise him by asking
你会说普通话吗 (nǐ huì shuō pǔtōnghuà ma - Do you speak Mandarin
Chinese?). We then discussed differences and similarities between
Portuguese, Thai and Mandarin ([Thai] has five tones, Mandarin four),
the many Portuguese loanwords that apparently survive in Thai language,
and how several popular Thai desserts were apparently introduced by the
Portuguese (could yummy "arroz doce" have mutated into yummy
Kao-Neaw-Ma-Mung?). Sukhothai, we learned, is not only the name of the
fifth Thai restaurant to open in Portugal but also the former [capital
of the first Thai kingdom].

Mr. Noppadol also tolds us of his aim for Sukhothai: to make genuine
Thai food available at medium prices, and thus introduce a younger breed
of clients to the wonders of Thai cuisine. I wish him luck, and hope
Sukhothai can live long and prosper and in the process help bring yet
more culinary diversity to my beloved hometown. ขอบคุณ, Mr. Noppadol.

Now if only someone thought of opening a Vietnamese or Malay-Indonesian
restaurant in Lisbon...

  [Bangkok]: http://www.eating-out.co.pt/member_details.asp?MemberID=82
  [BanThai]: http://www.lazer.publico.pt/artigo.asp?id=100061
  [Thai]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thai_language
  [capital of the first Thai kingdom]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Sukhothai
