---
layout: post
title: "Hey Mom, I'm on TV!"
published: true
category:
  - Web/Tech
---

I'm coming up on Portuguese television tomorrow, at 14h00 on "a dois:",
the second public TV channel.

I was interviewed around a month ago for [2010], a weekly magazine on
science and technology. They originally contacted me because they're
doing some kind of feature on physics or science blogs. I am no longer a
physicist, having permanently moved to IT in 1998, when I started
working for Sun, but I did help a bunch of ex-colleagues set up a
physics-centric blog called [FisicosLX] (Lx isÂ  common shorthand for
Lisbon, Portugal). Since I already had my own blog, I actually never did
contribute much to FisicosLX, and I told as much to the reporter who
contacted me. However, Aristarco, the main contributor to FisicosLx,
wasn't readily available, so they still chose to interview me in
connection with my own [Olifante's Lair].

On my suggestion, we did the interview at the new public garden located
near Casa da Moeda, where the old tram- then bus-station used to exist.
It's a nice addition to my neighbourhood, which is sorely lacking green
spaces. Even if it's a bit smallish, it's quite a pleasant spot --
surely one of the few good things to come out of Santana Lopes'
disastrous turn as Mayor of Lisbon (another one was the Keil do Amaral
amphiteather in Monsanto).

I remember not being nervous at all, and happily yapping my mouth for
what must have been ages. Unfortunately I don't remember much of what I
said, which can't be a good sign :-)

I can't wait to discover how big a fool I made of myself.

  [2010]: http://www.2010.pt/
  [FisicosLX]: http://fisicoslx.blogspot.com/
  [Olifante's Lair]: http://olifante.blogs.com/
