---
layout: post
title: "Wordle-ss"
published: true
category:
  - Web/Tech
---

While browsing through the [Google Application Engine Applications
Gallery], I chanced upon a delicious little application called [Wordle -
Beautiful World Clouds].

You can copy-paste text into a text box and ask Wordle to analyze it and
produce a word cloud, where the size of each word reflects how often it
appears in the analyzed text. Alternatively, you can point Wordle to a
del.icio.us account and it will produce the corresponding tag cloud.
Here's my the tag cloud for my top 100 [del.icio.us] tags:

[![Top100delicious]] 

Pretty obvious what my favorite tag is... Incidentally, I haven't been
using del.icio.us a lot lately. I've been using [Diigo] instead, which
in addition to social bookmarking allows you to highlight and save text
clippings from a web page.

By default Wordle analyzes the 150 most frequent words, but you can
tweak this number to produce sparser or denser word clouds. You can also
choose to ignore capitalization and show only lowercase words, which
eliminates spurious duplicates.

Wordle conveniently removes frequently used words such as "the" or "is"
unless you explicitly request it to show them.

Wordle randomly chooses a font and a color scheme, but these can also be
changed by the user. Many of the available fonts are gorgeous, whereas
the color scheme offering could be more varied.

After del.icio.us, I decide to generate a word cloud for my [Twitter
tweets], but I first had to obtain my full set of tweets. Unfortunately
I couldn't find a way to download my own tweets from Twitter, which is
unfortunate. Twitter, if you're listening, please [set my data free] (or
correct me if I'm wrong). Google Reader and Gmail do it; Typepad does
it; Bloglines does it; so should you.

Luckily I found [TweetDumpr], a simple webapp that exports your tweets
into a CSV text file. With some simple parsing and cleanup, I got a
clean text file with all my tweets, which I copy-pasted into Wordle.
Here's my Twitter top 100 word cloud:

[![Top100twitter]] 

Unfortunately Wordle currently seems to be down for maintenance, with
the following notice: "I am tinkering with Wordle... Don't fret! We'll
be back."

  [Google Application Engine Applications Gallery]: http://appgallery.appspot.com/
  [Wordle - Beautiful World Clouds]: http://wordle.net/
  [del.icio.us]: http://del.icio.us/olifante
  [Top100delicious]: http://olifante.blogs.com/.a/6a00d834528cff69e200e55386a7778834-320pi
    "Top100delicious"{.at-xid-6a00d834528cff69e200e55386a7778834}
  [![Top100delicious]]: http://olifante.blogs.com/.a/6a00d834528cff69e200e55386a7778834-popup
  [Diigo]: http://diigo.com
  [Twitter tweets]: http://twitter.com/olifante
  [set my data free]: http://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/200x/2006/07/28/Open-Data
  [TweetDumpr]: http://bradkellett.com/tweetdumpr/
  [Top100twitter]: http://olifante.blogs.com/.a/6a00d834528cff69e200e55386b2d08834-320pi
    "Top100twitter"{.at-xid-6a00d834528cff69e200e55386b2d08834}
  [![Top100twitter]]: http://olifante.blogs.com/.a/6a00d834528cff69e200e55386b2d08834-popup
